### Geometric algebra

Let $\mathbb{R}^{p,q,r}$ be the pseudo-Euclidean space with orthonormal basis $\{e_{1},\dots,e_{p},e_{p+1},\dots,e_{p+q},e_{p+q+1},\dots,e_{p+q+r}\}$, where the basis elements $\{e_1,\dots,e_p\}$ square to $1$, the basis elements $\{e_{p+1},\dots,e_{p+q}\}$ square to $-1$, and the basis elements $\{e_{p+q+1},\dots,e_{p+q+r}\}$ square to $0$. The geometric algebra of $\mathbb{R}^{p,q,r}$, denoted by $\mathcal{G}_{p,q,r}$, is a vector space where the operations defined in $\mathbb{R}^{p,q,r}$, i.e., the addition and multiplication by scalars, are extended naturally. An additional operation, the geometric product, is defined, and acts on vectors of the algebra as follows: 

\$
v_{1}v_{2} = v_{1}\cdot v_{2} + v_{1}\wedge v_{2},\,\text{ for } v_{1},v_{2}\in\mathbb{R}^{p,q,r},
\$

where $\cdot$ denotes the inner or dot product and $\wedge$ denotes the outer product.

The outer product of two vectors $v_{1},v_{2}$ is a new element of $\mathcal{G}_{p,q,r}$, which is termed a bivector, is said to have grade two and is denoted by $v_{1}\wedge v_{2}$. By extension, the outer product of a bivector with a vector is known as a trivector and is denoted by $(v_{1}\wedge v_{2})\wedge v_{3}$. Clearly, trivectors have grade three. This can be generalized to an arbitrary dimension. Thus,

\$
(v_{1}\wedge v_{2} \wedge \dots \wedge v_{k-1})\wedge v_{k}
\$

denotes an \textit{$k$-blade}, an element of $\mathcal{G}_{p,q,r}$ with grade $k$.

A bivector $v_{1}\wedge v_{2}$ can be interpreted as the oriented area defined by the vectors $v_{1}$ and $v_{2}$. Thus, $v_{2}\wedge v_{1}$ has the opposite orientation and, from that, the anticommutativity of the outer product can be deduced. Analogously, a trivector is interpreted as the oriented volume defined by its three composing vectors. Since the volume generated by $(v_{1}\wedge v_{2})\wedge v_{3}$ is the same as the volume generated by $v_{1}\wedge (v_{2}\wedge v_{3})$, it is also deduced that the outer product is associative. Therefore, $k$-blades can be denoted simply as:

$
v_{1}\wedge v_{2} \wedge \dots \wedge v_{k}.
$

Linear combinations of $k$-blades are known as $k$-vectors, while linear combinations of $k$-vectors, for $0\leq k\leq p+q+r$, are called multivectors. Multivectors are the most important elements of geometric algebra.

Applied to the basis elements $\{e_i\}$, the geometric product acts as follows:

\$
e_{i}e_{j}  = \left\{\begin{array}{lcl}
1 & \text{for} & i=j\text{ and }i\leq p\$
-1 & \text{for} & i=j\text{ and } p< i\leq p+q\$
0 & \text{for} & i=j\text{ and } p+q<i\leq p+q+r\$
e_{i}\wedge e_{j} & \text{for} & i\neq j
\end{array}\right.
\$

Then, $\{e_{1},\dots,e_{p},e_{p+1},\dots,e_{p+q},e_{p+q+1},\dots,e_{p+q+r}\}$ can be expanded to a basis of $\mathcal{G}_{p,q,r}$ that contains, for each $0\leq k\leq p+q+r$, $C(p+q+r,k)$ grade $k$ elements:

$
\begin{split}
&\text{Scalar: } 1\$
&\text{Vectors: } e_{1},\dots,e_{p+q+r}\$
&\text{Bivectors: } \{e_{i}\wedge e_{j}\}_{1\leq i<j\leq p+q+r}\$
&\text{Trivectors: } \{e_{i}\wedge e_{j}\wedge e_{k}\}_{1\leq i<j<k\leq p+q+r}\$
&\vdots\$
&k-\text{vectors: } \{e_{i_{1}}\wedge\dots\wedge e_{i_{k}}\}_{1\leq i_{1}<\dots<i_{k}\leq n}\$
&\vdots\$
&\text{$p+q+r$-blade: } e_{1}\wedge\dots\wedge e_{p+q+r}
\end{split}
$

which sums up to a total of $2^{p+q+r}$ elements. Understanding how the geometric product acts on the basis elements of $\mathcal{G}_{p,q,r}$ allows for its extension to arbitrary multivectors. The grade $p+q+r$ element $e_{1}\wedge\dots\wedge e_{p+q+r}$ is known as the pseudoscalar and is usually denoted by $I$. If $r=0$, pseudoscalars allow for the definition of one of the main operators of geometric algebra, the dual operator. Its action over a $k$-vector $A_{k}$ is:

\$
A_{k}^{\ast} = A_kI,
\$

where $A_{k}^{\ast}$ is a $(p+q-k)$-vector. In particular, for two multivectors $A$ and $B$, the following identity holds:

\$
(A\wedge B)^\ast = A\cdot B^\ast.
\$
